# INFO474-Final-Project

### Design Overview and Description:

My radial bar diagram design provides a visually engaging way for users to explore temperature trends over time in the United States. The subtitle below the title has the words “Explore (user selected temperature attribute) in (user selected city)” for freedom of data exploration according to personal interests. <br />
By representing each day of the year as a bar, I’ve allowed users to easily see how temperatures change over the course of a year. The bars’ heights are according to temperature (Fahrenheit) where the inner radius of the circle is 0℉, and the circle arcs within the diagram have labeled ticks of temperature intervals from -20 to 130℉. Additionally, the use of an intuitive color scale from blue to red as temperatures increase allows users to quickly see the temperature range for each day.<br />
The analytical questions that I intended to answer with this design include: How do average daily, minimum, and maximum temperature patterns vary across different cities in the United States? Which year had the lowest and highest temperature occurrence on this day for different cities? How do the highest and lowest recorded temperatures on this day compare to the most recent daily average temperature on that same day of the year? How much precipitation occurred during this day for each city? By providing dropdowns for users to select a specific city and temperature attribute, I have enabled viewers to explore and compare temperature data in a way that is relevant and meaningful to them. <br />
The communicative objectives of the design include educating viewers about temperature trends in the United States, as well as allowing them to make informed comparisons and decisions based on temperature data. I specifically added the option of the minimum and maximum recorded temperatures to emphasize the importance of learning about extreme weather patterns compared to daily average temperatures for every city data available since climate change is an extremely pressing and urgent issue that needs to be addressed more. In the future, I would like to have the temperature attributes from all years leading up to 2023 (not just 2014-2015) so that viewers can learn how temperature anomalies and extreme weather patterns have worsened over time due to climate change.<br />
In terms of usability, the dropdowns, the tooltip on hover of each bar to display exact temperature and date information, and changing text in the center of the diagram according to city and temperature selected all allow for a clean and intuitive interface for users of any skill level. These were intentionally added to ease the user experience and allow for a seamless data exploration process. 
By providing a user-friendly interface for exploring temperature data, I’ve enabled users to engage with the information and draw their own conclusions about weather patterns in different regions of the United States. Overall, the design prioritizes user-centeredness and usability to provide an informative and accessible data visualization tool.
